want to improve the SEO on your B2B
website for free then stay tuned
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business great show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
B2B marketing and website tips useful
guides podcasts resources and more you
can give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email so this episode
was taken from my recent interview with
Neil Shafer where we dive in to five
strategies to improve your SEO how you
can build quality backlinks to your site
for free and more so let's jump in
you're all about well you're more than
just SEO but that's obviously one of the
the key things that you deliver to your
clients so uh can we start with just how
did you get into this SEO thing
yeah I mean in terms I I pretty much
like probably many people in marketing I
I kind of fell into it so I used to work
in retail I used to work in a camera
shop chain called jessups which I think
is only UK based as far as I know anyway
long story short as I actually hated
dealing with the general public so I did
this job pretty much out of college out
of school and it was really hitting the
other general public because I'm I'm not
really a face-to-face kind of guy I
prefer digital
um over the phone Zoom cool suits me and
my cousin said look Sam there's this job
going at a company called Web choice we
basically sell websites we do digital
marketing we need a new kind of project
manager guy to manage some things I said
sounds great did interview the next day
got the job left my camera shop job
straight away and that was probably
about 12 or so years ago now so I
initially started just doing websites
before I even knew what a website
properly was or what SEO was kind of
started as a jack of all trades kind of
dealing with some cells schools dealing
with some customer projects building out
wireframes steadily learn how websites
work and then that kind of transitioned
into SEO learning all about how organic
search is formatted how websites can be
optimized how off-page SEO works and
it's kind of leaped and spiraled over
the last 10 and 12 years well that's
amazing so would you say that you
originally started out or project
manager so you were never like a web
designer but web design website building
is something that web Choice did at the
time I assume yeah exactly so I've
always been more strategy based so I
kind of started off as project
management and sales and from then
working closely with our design
development and our digital marketing
team have got to learn the nuts and
bolts in terms of kind of what makes a
great website what makes a website
produce leads how do sites rank on
Google so I love kind of talking to
customers understanding their problems
and kind of putting together strategies
with our team to make it happen that's
that's my uh my foresee really beautiful
so you've seen it all over the last 12
years and before we get into a little
bit more you know detailed talk about
SEO uh as you know like everybody in the
digital marketing world knows that
Google recently announced this helpful
content update and you probably got
bombarded with calls from clients and I
know I've had a lot of questions so Sam
is this something that we should be
worried about or that we should be
celebrating
I literally just did a podcast and a
LinkedIn post on this and I said should
you be worried about it perhaps if your
site and if the content you put out is
purely geared towards pleasing search
engines and you're just kind of trying
to jam in some Search terms there put
out generic content then maybe you
should be worried whereas if you're
actually creating content that's geared
up to help educate
really be useful to your ideal target
audience I mean Google literally put in
one of the blogs that they put about the
updates you want to create content for
your audience for this latest update
which everyone really should have been
doing anyways so
um I mean a big part of it is
understanding what your customers care
about which is kind of marketing 101
talking to your Target customers talking
to idle clients understanding their
problems their pain points their goals
their Ambitions and then working that
into the copy whether that's on your
website on your FAQs on your resources
and all that good stuff so as long as
you're doing those Basics you should be
fine whereas if you're if you're just
spamming out tons of content using AI
Bots using software automated tools then
you might need to kind of rethink your
strategy is my thoughts yeah I'm
thinking thank you very much for that
and I I couldn't agree more and I think
it definitely is sort of this reaction
to the fact that it's a lot easier to
create lots of content that looks very
human in a very short period of time but
obviously that's not what Google uh
wants businesses to do really basically
stick in your lane and
um if you create great human content
that is useful you'll be rewarded I know
I don't know about your client Sam but
I've seen uh I've seen an increase in my
web traffic and the ranking since then
so I think it's already being
implemented and hopefully uh yourself
and your clients as well
yeah yeah I mean we've seen some upticks
I mean Google have said that they're
rolling out steadily over the next few
months so some sites it might take a few
months to actually take an impact
because they're manually reviewing them
um with a few kind of their tools and
stuff so yeah I mean like I say as long
as you follow those points you're kind
of staring away from click bait content
that when you click through to it
doesn't actually give you the answers
you're looking for really quickly then
as long as you do those those Basics
then you should be okay
so while it has become really easy to
create lots of content whether Google
likes it or not it's another story uh
the backlink side of the equation is not
so easy getting genuine backlinks from
high domain Authority sites in your
Niche I don't want to steal the show
here but uh let's take a step back down
before we get into sort of the topic of
today and it's something I've talked
about on this podcast as well just this
importance of backlinks in the entire
SEO equation how would you explain it
so the importance of links I mean
now sometimes people ask me do I
definitely leave backlinks for my
website and sometimes the answer might
be no so if you're in a super Niche
industry I you could be a local business
only serving a local market or you could
be a new category
um a new type of business or you could
just not have many competitors in
general in that case if you do great
on-page SEO I have Pages dedicated to
the main services you offer you optimize
your site well you follow best practices
for content and such then you might not
need them your site could rank well
because there's not much in the way of
competition but if you're in an industry
where there's quite a lot of competitors
and you want to get some of your main
service Pages your main sales page is
actually ranking the chances are just
doing great on-page SEO doing good
technical SEO and doing great content
it's probably not going to be beef you
up enough in the Google organic search
so that's what like you quite rightly
said there Neil is where backlinks come
into play so they can help boost what's
called The Domain authority of your web
site and over time send signals to
Google start ranking up those
all-important organic rankings and get
you that traffic that you need to either
Drive leads or drive the revenue
brilliant and and I intentionally
started the conversation with the useful
content topic because it first starts
with actually having good useful content
to link to before you can even start the
backlink generation correct
exactly and that's even one of the one
of the tips we've got in terms of how
you can create content and earn links
from it so yeah let's jump right into it
and it's you know it's been very
interesting my journey as well I have
also noticed with some clients that yeah
they don't really need to proactively
generate backlinks to get good search
engine rankings probably because of the
lack of competition like you mentioned
but also because of genuine good content
so maybe that's that's where we should
start and that's what you find sometimes
people will link to you um but yeah
let's let's jump straight into it I'll
give you the five five ways to get free
backlinks and feel free to to stop me
and jump in any time now so the five
ones are the first is podcasting
secondly we've got Outreach thirdly
we've got Partnerships fourthly guest
blotting blogging and fifthly we've got
h-a-r-o helper reporter out so if we
start with podcasting just like we're
doing now
um something I didn't even think about
probably until about six or seven months
ago when I was talking about it with a
guest but there's a really cool wait and
some some Great Links at the same time
get yourself some good PR and exposure
so what you can do with the tip one
podcasting is head over to a website
called chartable it's charitable.com and
this is an awesome site I love this site
because I check it out on my podcast
business growth show all the time to see
how it's ranking and with charterable
you can literally go on there you can
pick the industry so pick the industry
or the niche that your business operates
in so in our case marketing but yours
might be internet cyber security
whatever the heck you're involved in
choose that then you can choose the
location that you're trying to Target
and then you can choose Apple podcast or
Spotify I typically choose Apple podcast
because it has the market share from
there you can view the top 50 charts for
that industry which is awesome because
you know that your idle clients are
probably listening to these podcasts
you'll get then get the list of the 50
and what you can do is basically start
prospecting so we're going into sales
mode we're basically clicking through
onto each chart we're seeing the
podcasts that accept guests and then
we're hitting the guests up so we are
either dropping them an email if there's
a link to their website or we're
connecting them on LinkedIn which I
usually get a better response from
because basically you can go onto their
LinkedIn profile of the whoever runs the
show and you can send them a
personalized invite so it's just a
tailored Outreach message that's kind of
relevant to what you do and the value
you can bring so usually I send I love
bluntly short messages
um because I don't think that they're
seen enough when it comes to outreach
too many outraged messages in my opinion
the paragraphs paragraphs and they they
send me to sleep so I'll just put
something like let's say the guys who
ran the show let's say as a marketing
show I wanted to get on that was in the
top 50 I might just say hey Neil loved
your recent episode on ABC
um would love to share tips with your
audience on in my case websites that
generate leads or whatever it may be are
you against a conversation or me coming
on your show and I might offer him
another sweetener so something like that
very very simple one-liner pitch most of
those get get accepted likewise I might
shoot him an email as well so I've got
two chances for him to receive my
message a lot of people not everyone's
going to reply but you'll get a lot of
little um accept make a list what you
can do is make a Google doc or Google
sheet so you can follow all these up
reach out to a few each day and over
time you'll get accepted you can do the
podcast with them do a great podcast
whether that's video or audio do a great
show give some good value
on on whatever your industry is then at
the end of the show you can also promote
yourself so you get a bit of PR from
that and then once it's recorded just
ask the host of the show if when they
promote the episode on their website
article page to give yourself a link
back to your website and most of the
time they'll say yeah no problem let
them know the page you want to link to
and then you can earn a link for for
your website or for a Target page the
target keyword that you're after so that
is the first tip
yeah excellent Sam uh and I'm I'm a big
fan of charitable too and in fact that's
the exact process I used when I came out
with the age of influence I I recorded a
podcast episode about this but how I
appeared in like a hundred different
podcasts as a guest uh within 90 days
and it was an exact process I went into
you know Apple podcast marketing I did a
top 250 for the United States UK
Australia and Canada which is my the
main English Markets I will say uh Sam
that you and I both have a distinct
Advantage the fact that we're also
podcasters and I had an advantage last
time because I was coming out with a new
book so I think that's an important
thing is is I talk about this in
influencer marketing a lot and this is a
form of influencer marketing the wiif
equation wifm equation which is what's
in it for me right from their
perspective so I want to remind people
should they decide to do this it always
what can you provide them other than
being a great guest and knowledge but
just something to think about if you
want to pursue that
definitely I mean I've I don't know if
you've had in the same position now but
when I've had guests on my show there's
been one or two guests that just wanted
to talk about themselves or how great
they are which I never had purely
because they gave no value to our
audience so like like you've quite
rightly said there make sure when you go
on a show you can literally give genuine
actionable helpful tips that you know
are going to be useful rather than
talking about yourself because no one
wants to hear that which is exactly what
Sam is doing right now so keep going sir
bang on the money anyway we've got to
move fast so step two is Outreach and so
what you want to do is let's say you're
in a competitive space so maybe you
operate in the CRM
um customer relationship management
space
super competitive you've got beasts like
HubSpot Salesforce you name it absolute
Beast so you might want to rank for
something quite Niche so let's say you
offer Finance CRM so you might want to
go for a keyword like how to find the
best Finance CRM
um so let's say we've typed that into
Google we then see all the search
results we look at the top one to three
organic listings we head over to their
page and we check out a few things right
we check out how much content they've
got rough word count we check what the
content's talking about and then we look
for ways that we can one up we look for
ways that we can be we can produce
better copy than they've got on that
page so that might be things like adding
unique statistics that we've got on our
finance CRM or about the industry that
might be we're going to add a podcast
dedicated to this topic we might add a
video dedicated to this topic we might
add some nice testimonials dedicated to
it we might do some unique research we
might interview like 100 people on their
thoughts on how great the finance crms
are there we might review competitors so
looking for all these nooks and crannies
that we can one up these pages in terms
of content in terms of stats in terms of
useful information frequently asked
questions
and then we're going to put that all
together in a high performing page that
we believe is kind of far surpassing the
competition with that skyscraper
technique and once we've done that we
can then try and earn some links by
basically reaching out to Industry
relevant
um companies or prospects so in our case
if there's a company that maybe
is similar if there's maybe companies in
the finance space or in the CRM space or
in the tech space that might be relevant
that might find our article useful we
can then research some of those sites
find out whoever runs the marketing or
runs the admin or runs the pr for their
team and basically drop them a quick
note on email and say look I've just
written this on our top top article that
we believe is is really useful in this
space you could even give them a
sweetener so you could say look we're
prepared to link back to you if you can
drop us a link on it as well
um and then if you do enough of that
Outreach much like the podcasting it
might be a little bit of a numbers game
you're gonna have to reach out to a few
companies a fair few will say yeah look
we have we have seen that this is a
useful piece of content and we're happy
to drop you a link so that's tip number
two the skyscraper
skyscraper technique with Outreach to
say I'm a lot has been said about the
skyscraper technique and then and then
the Outreach I know and probably you as
well you're probably the recipient of a
lot of these Outreach emails I'm curious
in your experience how you've seen the
success rate of of doing this type of
Outreach and as you said it is a numbers
game right I've heard the number being
really low but then again any number is
more backlinks than zero right so what
what's Your Gut feel
what you've got to remember is that
these are free techniques and ultimately
paid ways in not all cases but many are
going to be quicker but these are really
good companies are perhaps bootstrapped
cash strapped looking to grow
um but yeah like you quite rightly said
I mean sometimes great content can just
rank
um doesn't always happen but it can or
people can find it and then they can
start linking to it but what you can
find is there might be a snowball effect
so you might produce this awesome page
that does all those best practices we've
talked about then you might have to
reach out to quite a few companies that
are relevant and then one or two of
those might offer you a link and you
might have to give them a sweetener
return but then from that little boost
that you've got from those links other
companies might start seeing it maybe
you've got some unique that stats some
unique data and other people start
linking to it so it builds up like a
snowball effect so I have I have seen
that happen with sites so that's another
thing to consider on that front
interesting one last question I know we
got a few more to get through here
really quickly one last question any
software that you recommend I know
there's a few tools out there it's
supposed specifically for outreach any
that you use there at web choice or that
you recommend
um I'll I'll give you a list we can put
in the show notes okay bro I I've used
one called respana
um it's one of the newer ones I know
there's there's a bunch of them out
there but okay cool yeah no probs so
thirdly we've got Partnerships which is
quite a fun one and it's actually quite
an easy one because you can literally
use people that you already do business
with so perhaps these are existing
clients perhaps these are existing
customers perhaps these are people you
work with in the past but think of
companies that complement your industry
but aren't direct competitors so in our
case I'll give you an actual example so
we do websites and SEO one of these kind
of complementing Partnerships might be
with an analytics software company maybe
they provide analytics maybe it's a CRM
tool because they can then link up their
their CRM to our websites that we build
so the leads pass through to there those
kind of things so what are the
complementary
businesses to your company
you've probably already got a lot of
contacts you can reach out to and you
can say look guys let's create some
content together maybe let's make a
video that's going to be relevant to our
audience so top tips to do this or how
you can in our case link your website to
CRM or maybe you're completely outside
the industry so maybe you're in home
repairs and you're looking for maybe a
window repair company because they
complement your services let's create
some content together let's create a
video a podcast an article that's going
to help both our audiences then once
we've done it stick up a Blog article on
each other's sites let's link back to
each other from them let's create the
content together it's very cost
effective it's easy it's quite fun and
you both earn depending on the domain
authority of your site could be quite a
quite a good link and also builds a
partnership for potential business in
the future so that's tip three awesome
nice moving forward number four
a little bit of a controversial one is
guest blogging so it's kind of similar
to outreach but it's more off-page SEO
so actually creating an article off your
site that's then going to go on a
potential guest blogging site so if you
want to find these there's a few things
that you can search so in our case let's
let's stick to the ceramic example so
you could literally search and Google
something like CRM space right for us or
CRM space guest article or CRM space
guest blog and then this will bring up a
bunch of article submission sites that
allow you to as an author create
articles for them and what you need to
do is find ones that are going to be
relevant that are going to be in your
niche in your industry with that keyword
and then um yeah a lot of them will say
look you can apply to write for us you
can apply to write an article a writer
to write a blog on our site
much like most of the things we've been
talking about it will be a little bit of
a numbers game reaching out to them via
email but if you can see that decision
maker if you can find them on LinkedIn
use the search tool and Linkedin send
them a personal invite it's just another
way to break through the noise of the
email inbox
and yeah essentially you want to do a
short Snappy pitch to say look read a
couple of their blogs say love love the
content you're putting out on XYZ would
love to add value I could believe I can
help with these points tips on a b and c
and would you be against me coming on to
submit an article on your site again
like I said it will take a few
outreaches but some of those will accept
your content and then many of those once
you get a post live
they have an author section or about the
author section or something similar
where then you can put a little bio of
yourself your company and a backlink to
to your website so it's again it's a
little bit more of a detailed approach
but it's another way to to gain a link
back to your site yeah I'm a huge fan of
guest blogging and I think when done
writing can be extremely effective I
actually have a free ebook on the
subject that uh I'll drop in the show
notes as well but I know we're Limited
at times let's go into number five
yeah so fifth finally and probably one
of the ways to get some of the very best
links
um is there's a lot of agencies that
charge a arm and a leg for hero links to
help a reporter out is you can literally
head to a website called
helperreporout.com and you can basically
connect get connected to news media
journalists PR sites that are looking
for you to do the Dirty Work really
they're looking for experts that can
write on stories that they want to put
out on their site
um but the only issue is you're usually
going against 50 100 people at the same
time so there's a few things to consider
what you do is you sign up on the helper
reporter out website you put in your
details and they'll usually email you
relevant requests so when reporters or
journalists need your help need your
input on a story you'll get an email
request then you can submit up a plan a
proposal to them
but there's a few things like I say it's
got to be detailed it's got to be
helpful it's got to be super valuable
it's going to be super actionable and
it's a bit of a numbers game in terms of
you probably have to submit quite a few
to get one accepted but the good thing
about these help reporter out these news
these journalists these PR sites as they
have what's called really high domain
Authority so just a couple of these
links these juicy about links to your
site could be a super boost for your
website so whilst it might be quite
painful to create that if you can get a
couple of these links they're really big
hitters for your website that's why
agencies that do Haro can charge an arm
and a leg thousands for their links
yeah and I mean all these finally you
talked about Sam it's a lot of work but
that's the whole point as you mentioned
if you're like a bootstrap company you
don't have a lot of budget
um this is you know if you can increase
domain Authority increase your search
engine rankings that's free traffic and
and it lives on right so you you put in
a little Sweat Equity now but you
rebound yourself for a long time
and what you'll find with these things
is yes it might be like quite rightly
said then you know it's a lot of ground
work up front when your bootstrap you
don't have much cash but then once these
these results pay off once you start
getting that organic traffic to your
site once you start generating Revenue
then you can look to invest whether
that's in your own team or agency
whatever and start paying for these
things so you don't have to do so much
manual stuff
out of these five Sam any ones that you
prefer over the other that you've seen
best results over the other or is it
really going to depend on the company
the industry
my favorite from a personal approach for
ease of use as a podcasting route and
the partnership route because it's just
low friction it's just it's pretty easy
to get onto podcasts it's pretty easy to
build relationships with existing
suppliers and create content and build
links together so those are probably the
some of the two easiest I'd push and
it's a good reason if you don't have a
podcast to start a podcast definitely so
many advantages to a podcast for sure
awesome Sam so how can our guests I know
this is a short and sweet episode for a
variety of reasons that we won't get
into but uh how can I guess find out
more about you and reach out to you yeah
appreciate you having me on nil so
there's a there's a few ways to reach
out so I'm on LinkedIn so Sam Dunning
Post website and SEO tips each day or if
you're into podcasts I've got a podcast
called business growth show so you can
check that out on Apple Spotify or it's
on YouTube as well where I interview
guests provide B2B marketing and website
tips well finally
um if you're perhaps tired of seeing
competitors ahead of you on Google
stealing your traffic steaming your
hard-earned visitors or maybe your
website is failing to convert visitors
into a steady flow of qualified sales
leads then we'd love to see if we can
help you it's webchoiceuk.com
awesome thank you Sam I mean as everyone
can hear and and attest to Sam is is the
real deal and really giving with
knowledge so thank you so much for
sharing all those with our audience uh
definitely reach out to Sam if you're
interested in help there uh at least
give us podcast listen it's an awesome
show and I look forward to catching up
with you again soon thanks very much
Neil enjoyed it and there you have it I
hope you found this walkthrough of use
as always if you enjoyed it a quick
rating or review on Apple podcast is
appreciated or if you're on YouTube a
quick subscribe goes a long way and with
that I'll catch you on the next one
cheers